CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

Contribution Agreement
======================

As a contributor, you represent that the code you submit is your
original work or that of your employer (in which case you represent you
have the right to bind your employer).  By submitting code, you (and, if
applicable, your employer) are licensing the submitted code to LinkedIn
and the open source community subject to the BSD 2-Clause license. 

Getting Started
===============

Install required global dependencies:

```
$ npm install -g lerna yarn
```

Check out the code:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/css-blocks/css-blocks.git
```

Go into the css-blocks directory and run some commands:

```
$ cd css-blocks
$ ./scripts/checkout-opticss-and-link.sh
```

Note: if you already have OptiCSS checked out, you can run
`./scripts/link-to-opticss.js ../opticss` instead of the script above (change
the path you pass it according to your needs).

You may want to ensure that the tests for OptiCSS are all passing:

```
$ cd build/opticss
$ lerna run test
$ cd - # to return to the css-blocks directory
```

Install dependencies and run tests:

```
$ lerna bootstrap
$ lerna run test
```

The code for individual packages of this monorepo are in `packages/*`.
Within any of the packages in this monorepo you'll generally use the npm
package scripts to manage the project, E.g. `yarn run test` or
`yarn run lintfix`. Run `yarn run` for a list of available commands.

Responsible Disclosure of Security Vulnerabilities
==================================================

Please do not file reports on Github for security issues.
Please review the guidelines on at (link to more info).
Reports should be encrypted using PGP (link to PGP key) and sent to
security@linkedin.com preferably with the title "Github linkedin/css-blocks - <short summary>".

Tips for Getting Your Pull Request Accepted
===========================================

1. Make sure all new features are tested and the tests pass.
2. Bug fixes must include a test case demonstrating the error that it fixes.
3. Open an issue first and seek advice for your change before submitting
   a pull request. Large features which have never been discussed are
   unlikely to be accepted. **You have been warned.**

Commit message:

docs: Add vulnerability reporting details.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

Contribution Agreement
======================

As a contributor, you represent that the code you submit is your
original work or that of your employer (in which case you represent you
have the right to bind your employer).  By submitting code, you (and, if
applicable, your employer) are licensing the submitted code to LinkedIn
and the open source community subject to the BSD 2-Clause license. 

Getting Started
===============

Install required global dependencies:

```
$ npm install -g lerna yarn
```

Check out the code:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/css-blocks/css-blocks.git
```

Go into the css-blocks directory and run some commands:

```
$ cd css-blocks
$ ./scripts/checkout-opticss-and-link.sh
```

Note: if you already have OptiCSS checked out, you can run
`./scripts/link-to-opticss.js ../opticss` instead of the script above (change
the path you pass it according to your needs).

You may want to ensure that the tests for OptiCSS are all passing:

```
$ cd build/opticss
$ lerna run test
$ cd - # to return to the css-blocks directory
```

Install dependencies and run tests:

```
$ lerna bootstrap
$ lerna run test
```

The code for individual packages of this monorepo are in `packages/*`.
Within any of the packages in this monorepo you'll generally use the npm
package scripts to manage the project, E.g. `yarn run test` or
`yarn run lintfix`. Run `yarn run` for a list of available commands.

Responsible Disclosure of Security Vulnerabilities
==================================================

**Do not file an issue on Github for security issues.**  Please review
the [guidelines for disclosure][disclosure_guidelines].  Reports should
be encrypted using PGP ([public key][pubkey]) and sent to
[security@linkedin.com][disclosure_email] preferably with the title
"Vulnerability in Github LinkedIn/css-blocks - &lt;short summary&gt;".

Tips for Getting Your Pull Request Accepted
===========================================

1. Make sure all new features are tested and the tests pass.
2. Bug fixes must include a test case demonstrating the error that it fixes.
3. Open an issue first and seek advice for your change before submitting
   a pull request. Large features which have never been discussed are
   unlikely to be accepted. **You have been warned.**

disclosure_guidelines: https://www.linkedin.com/help/linkedin/answer/62924
pubkey: https://gist.github.com/chriseppstein/3f45d3a8e6fb42f24cb7b3f77f21381e
disclosure_email: mailto:security@linkedin.com?subject=Vulnerability%20in%20Github%20LinkedIn/css-blocks%20-%20%3Csummary%3E
